DEVX-2315: Hybrid on-prem cp-demo to Confluent Cloud plus Metrics API (#313)
confluentinc/cp-demo: docs/index.rst

| Elasticsearch sink connector        | ``WIKIPEDIABOT`` (from ksqlDB) | Elasticsearch/Kibana                  |
+-------------------------------------+--------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

How to use this tutorial
------------------------

> We suggest going following the ``cp-demo`` tutorial in order:

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the intent of "going following", either "going through" or just "following"?

Author: Good catch, now resolved.

   -  Enable |sr-ccloud| and associated credentials.
   -  Create ACLs with wildcard for the service account.
   -  Generate a local configuration file with all above connection information.

   The first step is to get a bash library of useful functions for interacting with |ccloud| (one of which is ``cloud-stack``). This library is community-supported and is not supported by Confluent.

   .. code-block:: text

      wget -O ccloud_library.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/examples/latest/utils/ccloud_library.sh

#. Using the ``ccloud_library.sh`` which you just downloaded, create a new ``ccloud-stack`` (see :ref:`ccloud-stack` for advanced options). It creates real resources in |ccloud| and takes a few minutes to complete.

   .. code-block:: text

      source ./ccloud_library.sh
      ccloud::create_ccloud_stack
 
#. When it completes, view the local configuration file at ``stack-configs/java-service-account-<SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID>.config`` that was auto-generated. It contains connection information for connecting to your newly created |ccloud| environment.

   .. code-block:: text

      cat stack-configs/java-service-account-*.config

> #. Set the environment parameter ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID`` to whatever that number <SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID> is in the filename. For example, if the filename is called ``stack-configs/java-service-account-154143.config``, then set ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID=154143``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the current shell, set the environment variable ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID`` to the <SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID> in the filename. For example, if the filename is called ``stack-configs/java-service-account-154143.config``, then set ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID=154143``.
```

   .. code-block:: text

      curl -sS -o ccloud_library.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/examples/latest/utils/ccloud_library.sh

#. Using ``ccloud_library.sh`` which you downloaded in the previous step, create a new ``ccloud-stack`` (see :ref:`ccloud-stack` for advanced options). It creates real resources in |ccloud| and takes a few minutes to complete.

   .. code-block:: text

      source ./ccloud_library.sh
      ccloud::create_ccloud_stack
 
#. When ``ccloud-stack`` completes, view the local configuration file at ``stack-configs/java-service-account-<SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID>.config`` that was auto-generated. It contains connection information for connecting to your newly created |ccloud| environment.

   .. code-block:: text

      cat stack-configs/java-service-account-*.config

#. In the current shell, set the environment variable ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID`` to the <SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID> in the filename. For example, if the filename is called ``stack-configs/java-service-account-154143.config``, then set ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID=154143``.

   .. code-block:: text

      SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID=<fill in>

> #. The |crep| :devx-cp-demo:`configuration file|scripts/connectors/submit_replicator_to_ccloud_config.sh` has parameters that specify how to connect to |ccloud|.  You could set these parameters manually, but to do this in an automated fashion, use another script to set env parameters customized for the |ccloud| instance created above. It reads your local |ccloud| configuration file, i.e., the one ``stack-configs/java-service-account-<SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID>.config`` auto-generated above, and writes delta configuration files for |cp| components and clients connecting to |ccloud|.

Reviewer: IMO the term "delta configuration" here feels uninformative to a reader unfamiliar with the term borrowred from the script's home location.  I think the meaningful thing for the reader here is that the script helps generate configurations for CP components to connect to the cloud, not that they are "deltas" of something else especially as we don't explain what they are the delta of.

Author: @rspurgeon WDYT about the rewording in the latest commit?

   .. code-block:: text

      kafka1            | 	confluent.telemetry.api.key = QX7X4VA4DFJTTOIA
      kafka1            | 	confluent.telemetry.api.secret = [hidden]

|crep|
------

#. If you have been running ``cp-demo`` for a long time, you may need to refresh your local token to log back into MDS:

   .. sourcecode:: bash

      ./scripts/helper/refresh_mds_login.sh

#. Set the |crep| name.

   .. code-block:: text

      REPLICATOR_NAME=replicate-topic-to-ccloud

#. Create a role binding to permit a new instance of |crep| to be submitted to the local connect cluster with id ``connect-cluster``.

   Get the |ak| cluster ID:

   .. literalinclude:: includes/get_kafka_cluster_id_from_host.sh

   Create the role bindings:

   .. code-block:: text

      docker-compose exec tools bash -c "confluent iam rolebinding create \
          --principal "User:connectorSubmitter" \
          --role ResourceOwner \
          --resource Connector:${REPLICATOR_NAME} \
          --kafka-cluster-id ${KAFKA_CLUSTER_ID} \
          --connect-cluster-id connect-cluster

> 

Reviewer: This command has an incomplete string cand can't be pasted and executed directly

Author: Fixed

   .. code-block:: text

      cat stack-configs/java-service-account-*.config

#. In the current shell, set the environment variable ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID`` to the <SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID> in the filename. For example, if the filename is called ``stack-configs/java-service-account-154143.config``, then set ``SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID=154143``.

   .. code-block:: text

      SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID=<fill in>

#. The |crep| :devx-cp-demo:`configuration file|scripts/connectors/submit_replicator_to_ccloud_config.sh` has parameters that specify how to connect to |ccloud|.  You could set these parameters manually, but to do this in an automated fashion, use another script to set env parameters customized for the |ccloud| instance created above. It reads your local |ccloud| configuration file, i.e., the one ``stack-configs/java-service-account-<SERVICE_ACCOUNT_ID>.config`` auto-generated above, and writes delta configuration files for |cp| components and clients connecting to |ccloud|.

   Get the script, which is also community-supported and not supported by Confluent.

   .. code-block:: text

>       wget -O ccloud-generate-cp-configs.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/examples/latest/ccloud/ccloud-generate-cp-configs.sh

Reviewer 2: @ybyzek should we add `wget` to the list of [prereqs for cp-demo](http://staging-docs-independent.confluent.io.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/docs-platform/PR/189/6.0.1/tutorials/cp-demo/docs/index.html#prerequisites)? To my surprise, I found out I didn't have wget on this laptop yet while going through these steps haha 😰

Author: @awalther28 agree, and done in latest commit.

#. It takes about 1 minute to show up in the Connectors view in |c3|.  When it does, verify |crep| to |ccloud| has started properly, and there are now 4 connectors:

   .. figure:: images/connectors-with-rep-to-ccloud.png

#. Log into `Confluent Cloud <https://confluent.cloud>`__ UI and verify you see the topic ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica`` and its messages.

#. View the schema for this topic that is already registered in |ccloud| |sr|. In ``cp-demo``, in the :devx-cp-demo:`Replicator configuration file|scripts/connectors/submit_replicator_to_ccloud_config.sh`, ``value.converter`` is configured to use ``io.confluent.connect.avro.AvroConverter``, therefore it automatically registers new schemas, as needed, while copying data. The schema ID in the on-prem |sr| will not match the schema ID in the |ccloud| |sr|. (See documentation for other :ref:`schema migration options <schemaregistry_migrate>`)

   .. figure:: images/ccloud-schema.png

Metrics
-------

.. include:: includes/metrics-api-intro.rst

#. Get the current time minus 1 hour and plus 1 hour. These define a time interval when querying the Metrics API.

   .. code-block:: bash

>       CURRENT_TIME_MINUS_1HR=$(date -Is -d '-1 hour')

Reviewer 2: I get an error when trying to run this command on my mac. To remedy, I ran the command in the `tools` container. An approach of leveraging one of the running containers that you know has the right tools might be a good workaround for other mac users in my position. It might also be helpful here to say what time format you need so that people can create that if the command doesn't work. Just ideas.
```
localhost:cp-demo awalther$ CURRENT_TIME_MINUS_1HR=$(date -Is -d '-1 hour')
date: illegal option -- I
```

Author: @awalther28 thanks for surfacing this.  I'm working on a solution that uses the `tools` container (for now -- even though this container may be replaced in the future) for a consistent/reliable experience.

Author: @awalther28 latest commit addresses the timestamp issue.
